---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-16
labels:
  - ITM 352
---
<h2>WOD 1</h2>
Because this was my first WOD, I was still getting a hang of explaining while writing my code. As a result, my first attempt, I simply did not finish because I realized my paragraphs weren't spaced out as I wanted them to. I had to google the tag, and it took me too long to realize that I couldn't just space them out in the code. On my second attempt, I had forgotten how to make a list, so I had to spend time on w3schools to find the proper syntax for it. I only got Sd for that attempt. On the final one, everything went a lot smoother because I had already repeated the process multiple times to remember each of the tags. Honestly, it took a lot of patience, which is key to the future WODS.

<h2>WOD 2</h2>
On my second WOD, I DNFd the first attempt and got Sd on my second like the last WOD. However, I think the reason why it was harder was creating CSS stylesheets is different than HTML, and because I had done these back to back, I was still stuck in "HTML" mode. Once again, I had to look up a lot of the syntax, but the thing that I had the most trouble with was inline. I had a hard time figuring out what exactly that meant, so it took a while for me to look up the correct code online. 

<h2>WOD 3</h2>
My third WOD, I did four short attempts because I stopped the timer by the time I reached 15 minutes. My first attempt was longer since I was trying to look up how to create columns, but once I figured that out, the only thing preventing me from getting Rx was styling the navigation bar and also making sure the heading was even. This WOD helped me realize how important it is to pay attention to small details like the semi-colons at the end of the properties and also what specific properties like "padding ", which is really useful for achieving a uniform look.
