---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Performing WODs Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-16
labels:
  - ITM 352
---
<h2>1.</h2>
The most recent WOD that I recorded was the Invoice1 WOD, which involved creating an invoice for different shaving products. This requires the caluculation of prices, extended prices, and the total including tax. The full details can be found here: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html. My WOD recording can be found here: https://vimeo.com/616759658

<h2>2.</h2>
This was one of the longer WODs, so I made sure to take my time in performing it, sometimes forgoing copying and pasting for just putting in things manually because I wanted to make sure that each variable and object was correct. This slowed me down, however, it would have slowed me down even more if I had missed a semi-colon, messed up my syntax causing me to get confused in my code because I was busy copying and pasting; for me, the tradeoff was worth it for the safety. For the first 3 steps or so, it was smooth sailing since I was simply adding and changing variable names; those things I could copy and paste since they were easily defined, especially with the comments, which divided up the sections of the invoice table. 

<h2>3.</h2>
Before I even started recording, I did everything by myself without a timer just so I could get a hang of what I was actually coding. If I didn't understand or know how to perform something, I would go to W3 Schools, or refer to the screencast. During my first "run," I did it without voicing myself. My first official attempt where I started recording my voice actually helped a lot since it required me to explain what I was doing. My first two attempts were shot because the last steps of formatting the table confused me, especially knowing where to put the script tags and also the the back ticks. 

<h2>4.</h2>
I realized that maybe I don't have to do a run through without my voice first; perhaps I could just record myself immediately, rewatch my video, and polish the things that I did not explain so well or did not know. I think that would save me a lot of time, and it would help me be more prepared during class and assignments since there would be a better chance of me remembering how to write certain things (and not to mention make doing future WODs quicker). 

