---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-07
labels:
  - ITM 352
---
<h2>1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details</h2>
The Assignment 2 details are found here: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html and my code for Assignment 2 is found here: https://github.com/MatteHue808/ITM352_F21_repo/tree/main/Calulot_Matthew_Assignment2. Essentially, I had to create login and registration pages which worked with my current product page; people could only check out and be redirected to the invoice if they logged in or registered (plus, I had to include personalization based on their username once they log in and also on the invoice and also security through validation). Most importantly, the data should be transient throughout all the new pages. 

<h2>2. What did you learn from this assignment?</h2>
I learned that before you even start on Assignment 2, you should fix all of the major issues in Assignment 1; I got marked down a lot for Assignment 2, even if I did have the functionalities for the requirements for it. Additionally, I learned that there are multiple ways to handle data, such as through query strings. I also got a better understanding about routes as well and how to pass data through more pages. 

<h2>3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</h2>
I did not work with a partner.

<h2>4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?</h2> 
For the most part, I tried to do things on my own, which proved to be very time consuming by the end (probably not the best idea!). However, I did consult the recent WODs and Lab 13 A LOT. For validation, I did a lot of research through google and I actually found there were a lot of resources for things like email validation. As regards to my login and registration template, I went back to resources like w-3 schools and also examples on YouTube to take inspiration from. At the end, I did ask professor to just go through a quick run-through of my application on the ITM-VM server before I submitted, which was reassuring. 

<h2>5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?</h2> 
For Assignment 2, I had to do a lot more outside research rather than just referring to the labs and the WODs and also rewriting of old code/functions to include things like a universal variable for the data. Assignment 2 was slightly easier and faster to do (but still hard as heck!), as my coding confidence had increased since Assignment 1. 

<h2>6. Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary)</h2>
To add personalization, I added a thank you message with the user's name in the invoice page. I simply posted the username from the body, assuming that they logged in. It was honestly the simplest part of the assignment for me. 

<h2>6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</h2>
I spent about 15% thinking how to do something, 45% writing code, and 45% testing and debugging. I spent 15% thinking because I was trying to decide how exactly to format each of the new pages and style them (login, registration, etc,). 45% of my time was spent writing the code as I had to actually do a lot of outside research with the validation aspect of the assignment and also reading of the documentation to figure out how to do what I wanted to do. The other 45% was spent testing and debugging, which was actually surprising to me because I spent more time testing in Assignment 1 then in Assignment 2, however, I did still get errors of course, especially when posting. 


<h2>7. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</h2>
If I could go back in time and do things differently, I think I would try to get more help from the professor since I think that would save a lot of time in the beginning. Additionally, I was too shy to ask for help regarding Assignment 1's missing functionality for inventory; now I have to work on Assignment 3 along with fixing that as well--and to resubmit it (more time not spending on Assignment 3 and the screencast!). Asking classmates for inspiration too, I think, would also help me get ideas for the a) thinking about how to do something, which I now know is important for Assignment 3.  Obviously, I am a huge procrastinator, so I would definitely try to start earlier as well, so that I could get a head start on help for Assignment 3.


